# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.

=head1 NAME

Lucy::Docs::Cookbook - Apache Lucy recipes.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Cookbook provides thematic documentation covering some of Apache Lucy's
more sophisticated features.  For a step-by-step introduction to Lucy,
see L<Lucy::Docs::Tutorial>.

=head2 Chapters

=over

=item *

L<Lucy::Docs::Cookbook::FastUpdates> - While index updates are fast on
average, worst-case update performance may be significantly slower. To make
index updates consistently quick, we must manually intervene to control the
process of index segment consolidation.

=item *

L<Lucy::Docs::Cookbook::CustomQuery> - Explore Lucy's support for
custom query types by creating a "PrefixQuery" class to handle trailing
wildcards.

=item *

L<Lucy::Docs::Cookbook::CustomQueryParser> - Define your own custom
search query syntax using Lucy::Search::QueryParser and
L<Parse::RecDescent>.

=back

=head2 Materials

Some of the recipes in the Cookbook reference the completed
L<Tutorial|Lucy::Docs::Tutorial> application.  These materials can be
found in the C<sample> directory at the root of the Lucy distribution:

    sample/indexer.pl        # indexing app
    sample/search.cgi        # search app
    sample/us_constitution   # corpus


