# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.

=head1 NAME

Lucy::Docs::Tutorial - Step-by-step introduction to Apache Lucy.

=head1 ABSTRACT 

Explore Apache Lucy's basic functionality by starting with a minimalist CGI
search app based on L<Lucy::Simple> and transforming it, step by step, into an
"advanced search" interface utilizing more flexible core modules like
L<Lucy::Index::Indexer> and L<Lucy::Search::IndexSearcher>.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Chapters

=over

=item *

L<Lucy::Docs::Tutorial::Simple> - Build a bare-bones search app using
L<Lucy::Simple>.

=item *

L<Lucy::Docs::Tutorial::BeyondSimple> - Rebuild the app using core
classes like L<Indexer|Lucy::Index::Indexer> and
L<IndexSearcher|Lucy::Search::IndexSearcher> in place of Lucy::Simple.

=item *

L<Lucy::Docs::Tutorial::FieldType> - Experiment with different field
characteristics using subclasses of L<Lucy::Plan::FieldType>.

=item *

L<Lucy::Docs::Tutorial::Analysis> - Examine how the choice of
L<Lucy::Analysis::Analyzer> subclass affects search results.

=item *

L<Lucy::Docs::Tutorial::Highlighter> - Augment search results with
highlighted excerpts.

=item *

L<Lucy::Docs::Tutorial::QueryObjects> - Unlock advanced search features
by using Query objects instead of query strings.

=back

=head2 Source materials

The source material used by the tutorial app -- a multi-text-file presentation
of the United States constitution -- can be found in the C<sample> directory
at the root of the Lucy distribution, along with finished indexing and search
apps.

    sample/indexer.pl        # indexing app
    sample/search.cgi        # search app
    sample/us_constitution   # corpus

=head2 Conventions

The user is expected to be familiar with OO Perl and basic CGI programming.

The code in this tutorial assumes a Unix-flavored operating system and the
Apache webserver, but will work with minor modifications on other setups.

=head1 SEE ALSO

More advanced and esoteric subjects are covered in
L<Lucy::Docs::Cookbook>.


